[S1] PubMed PMID 19708510 — [Prolactinoma].
TYPE: pubmed | RANKING WEIGHT: 0.96 (not an accuracy score)
URL: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/19708510/
Title: [Prolactinoma]. Date: 2009 PMID: 19708510 Abstract: Prolactin-secreting tumours (prolactinomas) are benign neoplasms constituting about 40 percent of all pituitary tumours. The incidence of these tumours varies with age and sex, occurring most frequently in females between 20 and 40-years-old. The clinical symptoms of prolactinomas are menstrual dysfunction and galactorrhea in women and loss of libido and potency in men. Differential diagnosis of the disease should include the intake of various drugs, hypothyroidism, renal failure, liver cirrhosis, compression of the pituitary stalk by other pathologies, idiopathic hyperprolactinemia and other types of pituitary adenomas. The aims of treatment are to restore or to achieve eugonadism through the normalisation of hyperprolactinemia and control of tumour mass. Because of the established effectiveness in the majority of cases and small number of acceptable adverse effects, dopamine agonists are considered the drugs of choice. Transsphenoidal surgery remains an option when medical therapy is neither effective nor well tolerated. The authors review the diagnosis and management of prolactinomas, including progress made in recent years.

[S2] PubMed PMID 36013562 — Treatment of Prolactinoma.
TYPE: pubmed | RANKING WEIGHT: 0.96 (not an accuracy score)
URL: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/36013562/
Title: Treatment of Prolactinoma. Date: 2022 Aug 13 PMID: 36013562 Abstract: Prolactinomas are the commonest form of pituitary neuroendocrine tumor (PitNET), representing approximately half of such tumors. Dopamine agonists (DAs) have traditionally been the primary treatment for the majority of prolactinomas, with surgery considered the second line. The aim of this review is to examine the historical and modern management of prolactinomas, including medical therapy with DAs, transsphenoidal surgery, and multimodality therapy for the treatment of aggressive prolactinomas and metastatic PitNETs, with an emphasis on the efficacy, safety, and future directions of current therapeutic modalities. DAs have been the mainstay of prolactinoma management since the 1970s, initially with bromocriptine and more recently with cabergoline. Cabergoline normalizes prolactin in up to 85% of patients and causes tumor shrinkage in up to 80%. Primary surgical resection of microprolactinomas and enclosed macroprolactinomas performed by experienced pituitary neurosurgeons have similar remission rates to cabergoline. Aggressive prolactinomas and metastatic PitNETS should receive multimodality therapy including high dose cabergoline, surgery, radiation therapy (preferably using stereotactic radiosurgery w

[S3] PubMed PMID 29177641 — Prolactinoma through the female life cycle.
TYPE: pubmed | RANKING WEIGHT: 0.96 (not an accuracy score)
URL: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/29177641/
Title: Prolactinoma through the female life cycle. Date: 2018 Jan PMID: 29177641 Abstract: Prolactinomas are the most common secretory pituitary adenoma. They typically occur in women in the 3rd-6th decade of life and rarely in the pediatric population or after menopause. Most women present with irregular menses and/or infertility. Dopamine (DA) agonists, used in their treatment, are safe during pregnancy, but in most cases are discontinued at conception with close monitoring for signs or symptoms of tumor growth. Breastfeeding is safe postpartum, provided there was no significant growth during pregnancy. Some women will experience normalization of prolactin levels postpartum. Menopause may also decrease prolactin levels and even those with macroprolactinomas may consider discontinuing their DA agonist with close follow-up. Prolactinomas may be associated with decreased quality of life scores in women, and play a role in bone health and cardiovascular risk factors. This review discusses the current literature and clinical understanding of prolactinomas throughout the entirety of the female life cycle.

[S4] PubMed PMID 38194617 — Prolactinoma in postmenopausal women: a systematic review.
TYPE: pubmed | RANKING WEIGHT: 0.96 (not an accuracy score)
URL: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38194617/
Title: Prolactinoma in postmenopausal women: a systematic review. Date: 2024 Feb 01 PMID: 38194617 Abstract: IMPORTANCE: Prolactinomas occurring during the reproductive period exhibit a characteristic behavior. There are, however, gaps in the literature regarding the behavior of these tumors after menopause. OBJECTIVE: This study aimed to review and characterize the influence of menopause on prolactinoma behavior. EVIDENCE REVIEW: A systematic review of observational prospective or retrospective studies and clinical trials on prolactinomas was conducted in two situations: tumors diagnosed in the reproductive period (before menopause), with follow-up in the postmenopausal period, or prolactinomas diagnosed in the postmenopausal period, without language or date restrictions. Data extracted from the articles included patient and tumor characteristics (prolactinoma type, previous treatment, symptoms, and serum prolactin [PRL] levels). FINDINGS: This study included five studies comprising 180 participants. Prolactinomas diagnosed in women of reproductive age are treated with dopaminergic agonists (DAs), with indications of treatment withdrawal after menopause, exhibited stable tumor behavior and PRL levels. Considering the diagnosis during the postmenopausal period, macroprolactinomas

[S5] Prolactinoma Management - Endotext - NCBI Bookshelf — ncbi.nlm.nih.gov (page retrieved 2026-10-04T00:54:07Z)
TYPE: web | RANKING WEIGHT: 0.98 (not an accuracy score)
URL: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/sites/books/NBK279174/
children and adolescents with prolactinomas are similar to that in adults; however, key differences exist, particularly in presentation and etiology. For that reason, children and adolescents with pituitary adenomas, including prolactinomas, should be treated by a pituitary specific multidisciplinary team. For complete coverage of all related areas of Endocrinology, please visit our on-line FREE web-text, WWW.ENDOTEXT.ORG. CLINICAL RECOGNITION Patients with prolactinomas come to clinical recognition because of the effects of elevated prolactin levels or tumor mass effects. The most typical symptoms of hyperprolactinemia in premenopausal women are oligo/amenorrhea (approximately 90%) and galactorrhea (approximately 80%) (1). Hyperprolactinemia is a cause of amenorrhea in 10%-20% of nonpregnant women (2), while non-puerperal galactorrhea may occur in 5-10% of normally menstruating, normoprolactinemic women, and therefore is suggestive, but not definitive, of hyperprolactinemia. However, when oligo/amenorrhea is associated with galactorrhea, about 75% of women will be found to have hyperprolactinemia. Galactorrhea is reported in ~10% of cases in men with prolactinomas and is virtually pathognomonic of a prolactinoma. Hyperprolactinemia inhibits the pulsatile secretion of gonadotropi

[S6] PubMed PMID 40876473 — Prolactin-secreting adenomas: pathogenesis, diagnosis, and management.
TYPE: pubmed | RANKING WEIGHT: 0.96 (not an accuracy score)
URL: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/40876473/
Title: Prolactin-secreting adenomas: pathogenesis, diagnosis, and management. Date: 2025 Oct PMID: 40876473 Abstract: Hyperprolactinaemia can result from physiological causes, pharmacological agents, or pathological conditions such as prolactin-secreting pituitary adenomas and other pituitary stalk-compressing masses. Sporadic prolactinomas are the most common functioning pituitary adenomas, with a female predominance during reproductive years. In men, these adenomas are usually larger and more aggressive. Prolactinomas are characterised by positive immunostaining for prolactin, pituitary-specific positive transcription factor 1, and oestrogen receptor α. Dopamine agonists, particularly cabergoline, are typically used as primary therapy. Treatment with up to 2·0 mg per week of cabergoline for at least 6 months normalises prolactin concentrations, achieves adenoma shrinkage of at least 30%, and restores gonadal function in most patients. Transsphenoidal surgery is increasingly used as primary therapy for small prolactinomas given a high chance of remission; transsphenoidal surgery is also indicated for patients with dopamine agonist intolerance or resistance. Radiotherapy is reserved for treatment-refractory prolactinomas. Multidisciplinary management and an individualised approac